So welcome back after taking a break.
Let's now continue Building the About Section.
This was where we took off after the last lecture.
What we have here again, is these two headings,
and I'm gonna call them tertiary headings,
so the third level of a heading,
which means H3 in practice.
Then this here is just going to be some paragraph.
Okay?
So just some very simple styles
so let's now very quickly implement them.
But once again before we start with our markup here.
So we're inside of this column here,
so we can actually right now
start writing our H3 here.
Again, I'm going to use Emmet,
and I hope that you're already using it as well.
So H3 and now heading-
tertiary.
And the text goes like
You're going to fall in love with nature.
Then after that, we have a paragraph element,
we just simply gonna call paragraph.
So hit Tab and then some text here.
Okay.
Now, if you're using Emmet already,
then you can simply write Lorem to get some blind text.
So some text that is just like a filler text.
So we write Lorem, and then you hit Tab,
and then this weird-looking text here appears
like in Latin or something.
We could also go to a generator like this one,
Lorem Ipsum Generator,
and then get some text from down here.
You can even generate more paragraphs or sentences
or words or whatever, so if you need some blind text,
you can use a tool like that, or just use Emmet.
Now it's actually not the best practice
to use blind text when we build webpages.
It's always best to work with the final content
that's gonna be on the site, but in case we don't have that,
then it's okay to just use blind text.
Okay?
And to know I'm copying this because we have two headers.
The second one says,
Live adventures like you never have before.
Let me try it, and now it's no longer working.
Well, why is that?
It's probably because it's already written in here.
Let me delete it just to ...
Yeah it's true.
Actually you'll see that the text that we wrote here now
is a bit different than what we have here, right?
It looks better on the final webpage
if the text isn't exactly the same.
As we were discussing in the last lecture,
these are very simple styles concerning
the typography of our website.
We're not really calling them components or anything.
They are just typography styles,
and so heading-tertiary as well as paragraph
are going here to our typography file.
All right, and also the paragraph.
Now this is not gonna be anything really fancy here.
All we want to do is to set some font-size
like 1.6rem
and maybe a font-weight here as well.
Let's say 700 so to make it a bit bolder.
Then such as our other headings,
let's also transform it to uppercase.
So text-transform
uppercase.
All right.
And as for the paragraph, let me set
the font-size to 1.6 as well,
1.6 rem.
Now what I also want, I want the paragraphs
to have a margin at the bottom,
and that's because we usually use a bunch
of different paragraphs one after the other,
and so it makes sense to have a bit of space between them.
But, we don't want any space between the last one.
Do you remember how we did that?
That's right, we used a not pseudo class again.
So just like this,
not and then
last-child.
We're selecting everything except the last child,
so the opposite of last child.
Last child is what?
It's just the last one,
but not last child is everything except the last child.
Let's give it some margin
at the bottom of 30 pixels,
so 3rem.
Let's check this out now.
All right.
This looks actually pretty good already.
Let's just take a look and actually, so yeah,
this has the margin at the bottom,
but this one does not because it's the last child,
and so therefore, our rule
that we applied before does work indeed.
Now one last thing we can do here with this text
is to set some margin in here.
Now, I want you to keep in mind what we did
with this heading here.
We used the helper class
to set this margin that you see here.
Remember this 80 pixels, this 8rem here.
Right?
That's because of reuseability.
We want to reuse this throughout the page.
The same thing might be true
for this H3 element here of course.
Let's now do the exact same thing.
We want to reuse it,
and so we're simply going to add a utility class
because we might want some of these headings with space
but others without space,
and so the utility class is the way to go here.
Sorry.
I didn't intend to just delete that.
We want to add it here as well as here, right?
So I can use the trick that I showed you earlier
with the multiple cursors.
Here and now I hit command or control probably on Windows,
and now I have two cursors,
and I can write the same thing in two places.
So u-
margin-bottom-
2, so I'm going with 20 pixels here.
You know what would be actually better here
instead of having these numbers,
it would be having some designation,
so some names because right now,
we're actually hard coding the margin in here,
so this would basically be the same as having
an inline style and set the margin directly in here.
Right?
So what's really the point of having it like this here
with this name already saying that it's two
if it could just set the inline style tool to rem.
All right.
So let me just delete this here and call it small,
and in here, call it big.
Okay.
So, this one is big, and now we want one that is small,
and maybe even one that is called medium or something.
So small, and one called medium, let's say.
Let's make it 2, and this one 4.
Maybe we can use it later at some point.
Now it makes sense to have the utility classes
like that because then if we later want to change,
this margin bottom actually to like four or 1.5
or something like that, then the names still make sense
that we have here in our markup.
Okay.
So let's check it out, and yeah, okay.
Actually, I think it's a bit too much,
so let's change it to 1.5 and so now I imagine
we would have to go back and then change it here too
to what, 1.5 for 1-5.
That would be weird, so it's better like this.
Let's hope it updates.
It did not update, well why is that?
Inspect.
And yeah, actually it did, okay, so 1.5rem now.
Actually, since we're looking here at the rem,
there's something I want to show you,
so remember all the talk that we had about the way
that units are processed in CSS, right?
We talked about declared values and cascaded values
and used values and computed values
and all of that stuff, right?
Actually what this dev tools here allows you to do
is to see a computed values.
In here we have for example, 1.5rem,
and then we have all the computed values.
For example, we see the 16 pixels that we have.
We see that all of these are set to zero.
Remember that I was telling you that all of these elements,
they have to have some value, right?
So the padding has a value, all of zero.
The margin has values, all of zero,
except this one which is 15,
and then all of these properties here, they have values.
If we should hit, Show all here,
then we can actually see all of the CSS properties
with all of their values.
If you remember that lecture, this values,
they are either the inherited values or the default values.
Right?
Okay, so we saw that we have here this 15 pixels
which came exactly from this 1.5rem.
So everything's working just as expected.
Okay, so let's now take care
of this button that we have here.
Okay.
I'm also now seeing that this text here is a bit smaller,
and actually it looks a bit nicer that way here.
All right, so that's cut a bit off the outer text,
but then of course, focus on this button here.
You see that when we hover the button,
from the green underline, it becomes a green background,
and you'll see the subtle shadow here,
and then when we hit it, it goes down.
This basically is the same mechanism as here.
When we hit it, it goes up a little bit,
and then we click it,
it looks like it moves away from the user.
Basically, as if we were really physically clicking
the button, okay, like hitting the button with our hand.
That's the same impression that I wanted to create here.
Okay.
As we were saying, let's take away some of this text.
Well, maybe not this much.
That was finished somewhere here.
Okay.
Yeah, looks better, maybe one more word
or two, and okay.
This button will be an anchor, so I'll just write
a.btn-text,
hit Tab, and that's it.
Actually it also asks me here to complete the H ref.
Okay.
I just point it to nowhere,
so that's why I'm using this hash symbol here.
If I now hit Tab, you see that it will then come
to this point here next
because there's already this gray cursor here.
So I hit Tab again, and now I'm here, and then I'm here.
So you see this Emmet extension,
it's really, really helpful.
For example, if I just write img
then it will automatically put these attributes
here for me, and let me cycle through them.
Now, I write something here, let's say abc,
and if I now hit Tab, it will go to the next place
where I can write some text.
So text, and if I hit Tab again, it goes to the end.
Okay.
The text in here should be Learn more.
Then we have this arrow going on,
and that is a html special character
or a special symbol, and in html, we write them like that.
So the ampersand and then a special code,
so in this case, rarr,
and that will translate into this arrow.
Let's take a look, and yeah, so this is the arrow
that I was telling you about.
Now for a complete list of these,
they are actually on my resources page.
I don't know if you're familiar with that one,
so let me just open it to you here,
codingheroes.io/resources.
All right, and then,
so here is this HTML Entity Reference by CSS-Tricks.
In here you have all these codes
for these special symbols if you want to use them.
What I want to show you is this arrow,
and I think it's somewhere down there.
Let me see.
Well we have all these Greek letters going on here.
Some more Greek letters, and well,
it should be somewhere here.
Oh okay, so here are the arrows.
I really like to use these instead of using other icons
like coming from an icon font, so it's just easier
to use these html code, okay.
If you don't know about this resource page,
I have a bunch of resources here, and I update it sometimes,
and you can subscribe if you want to receive these updates,
but of course, you don't have to, okay?
Let's close this again,
and now we are ready to style this link.
We already have a file for a button component,
so I say that we can simply add this new,
this smaller button here
to this button component file as well, okay?
So btn-text
and then we can put our styles here.
We will have some styles for the links and visited,
and of course hover and active pseudo classes.
So link and by now, you're already really familiar
with the way we write this.
So link and visited,
and then we have one for the hover state,
and then we have one for the active state.
This is actually pretty similar to the button
that we wrote before, so let's just very quickly do this.
The color should be our primary green color.
Okay?
So that it stands out nicely from the rest of the text.
Our green color, we are going to display it
as an inline block as always, so that we can use
the box model properties on it
like padding, margin, and all that good stuff.
So inline-block, then we want to get rid of the underlining,
so text-decoration
none because we want to put our own decoration,
so our own underlining.
We do that by having a border button.
It will be 1px
solid and again the primary color,
so the exact same color as the text,
and we do that because this way, we can set a padding
between the text and the line which otherwise we could not.
So padding
3px, and again three pixels like this
and one pixel is so small that it's not really going
to change sizes if the user decides
to change the base font size.
So if everything on the page scales up,
one pixel will still be one pixel
because in order to become two pixels,
the user would have to change the base font size
from 16 to 32, so to double it,
and that's a bit extreme, so I mean
no one is going to do that.
The same applies here to this padding,
so if it's a really small unit,
we can just leave it like that.
All right, and about the hover, remember how it looked like.
I can actually show it to you again.
While sometimes it doesn't really reload,
I'm not sure why, and actually nothing's happening.
Let me take a look why.
So btn-text, and it's the class of this,
and btn-text is what I have here
so why is this not working?
Oh I see, I have an error here, so a small typo.
Let's save it and take a look again.
Oh yeah, so here we have it.
Also we forgot to style the size of this,
so let's do that as well, and then remember
that the hover effect is like this moves up a bit,
has the shadow, and when we click, it moves down.
First things first.
The font-size should be like the text 1.6,
and then let's take care of the hover effect.
Now actually this 1.6rem font-size number here
is coming up an awful lot of times,
so I think it's actually best
to replace this with a variable,
so if one day we want to change this 16 pixel
like default font-size that we have here on the page,
we can simply do that by changing one variable.
So let's do that.
Let's say font-sizes,
or just font.
So default-font-size.
I'm simply calling the default font-size
because that's the font-size we're using all over the place.
We used it in the paragraphs, in this button text,
in the H3, we used it I think in a primary button as well,
and so let's do a variable with that.
Now please don't confuse that with, where do we have it?
Well, it's not here.
I know.
Please don't confuse it with this 62.5%, okay.
So we already talked about this.
This is just a definition to define what one rem is.
Right?
So all we're doing here in this variables file now,
is to say basically that we're using 1.6rem all the time,
and so we're using a variable for that.
I know that we use it here
in the heading-tertiary exactly, and down there as well.
So default font-size here and here.
Let's save it here in the typography,
and the utilities, I can close it.
The main I can also close it for now.
Here in the button, we also used it.
If I remember it right, we did it here as well.
Yeah, font-size here in the primary button is 1.6 as well.
Everything is 1.6 now.
That is our version.
Imagine that we have a client for example,
for which we are building this site.
You have all your site nicely set up,
and you're going to the client to show it to him.
He says "Well, this text is way too small.
"I want it bigger."
What are you going to do?
What do you prefer to do?
Do you prefer to go to all of this code here
and change font-size manually to 1.8 for example,
1.8 all over the place, in the button, in the button,
and the other typography styles that we saw,
or do you prefer to simply come here
and change one number to 1.8 and everything changes,
and you see everything changes.
The client is happy and everything is easier for you.
You just saved a lot of time and the client is happy,
and so everyone is happy.
So you see variables.
We should use them whenever we can.
Okay?
You can probably argue that I could use even more variables
all over the place here,
but I also don't want to make it too much here.
Okay?
I'm wanna keep it at a reasonable level.
All right, anyway.
Let's not change this hover style,
so background color, you saw it was this green as well.
So default, actually color
primary.
The text changed to white.
So color-white.
And we have some box shadow going on remember,
it's zero in the X direction,
10 pixels or 1rem in the Y direction.
Let's put 2rem
for the blur
and then the color, rgba
color-black
and you're already used to writing this.
I'm going with 15% here.
Please feel free to play around with all these numbers
to get a better feeling for them,
and to see what looks best.
I just don't want to lose a lot of time
by doing that now in here because otherwise
we end up with a course with 50 hours
and that's way too much.
But again, please play around with these values.
Okay, and finally, translating the button
in the Y direction for 2px, minus 2px actually,
so we're gonna move it up as we discussed earlier.
Okay.
Since we want this to be animated, all of it,
let's add the transition property here,
transition: all .2 seconds.
All right, and finally, for the active,
we want the box shadow, let's actually copy this,
so the box shadow of .5rem
and then here just 1.
To translate it, we can actually move it back
to its initial position, so zero.
So let's take a look.
Can close this.
Well, something's not working here,
at least not with the hover.
Let me see why that's happening.
All right.
Maybe you spotted it already, but somehow I did not.
Now it's working just fine.
You see, check.
Okay, and now with this part done
with everything working as expected,
you should probably take another break
so that this video doesn't
become one hour-long video or something.
See you in a second where we will finally finish
with this image composition here.